Many of us call the black men in our lives kings as a term of endearment, respect and encouragement, but with no extensive connection or education of black royalty here
 in the Western world, those words seem nothing more than platitudes. Usually, the only view of black royalty comes from over 4000 years ago in Ancient Egypt & Nubia.

As we celebrate the kings in our families, on Father’s Day, we’d like to introduce you to 10 real life Great Pre-colonial Black African Kings we should all know more
 about and identify with.

Endubis 270ce. -300ce Axum (Ethiopia) Axum was a powerful North East African Empire which rose to power after the decline of Ancient Egypt and Nubia. Axum is credited
 with conquering and bringing the ultimate end of the Kingdom of ancient Meroe (Nubia). Axum controlled the horn of Africa to across the Red Sea into the Arabian plateau.
  Endubis was the first king of Ancient Africa to mint coinage, and following Endubis, all Axumite (Ethiopian) Emperors  minted their own coinage: gold, silver and bronze
   pieces with their faces and motto.


Musa Keita I (Mansa Musa which translates as, “Kings of Kings” or “Emperor” of Ancient Mali) Keita 1 was the 10th Musa of the Mansa Dynasty. Under his rule, Mali became
 one of  the  wealthiest countries in the world. From their gold and salt production, agriculture and imperialistic nature and dynamic trade location, the kingdom flourished.
  Forbes named him the richest man of all time. Musa Kieta I Is famed with enriching the great trading city of Timbuktu, establishing the library and Islamic Universities. His 
  legendary pilgrimage to Mecca with over 60,000 attendants and lavish outpouring of gold to the poor across Sahel region, Egypt and the Middle East was chronicled by many and
   is suspected as what drew the attention of the Spanish crown and initial attraction of Europeans to West Africa. Made famous by the Spanish map, which shows him holding a golden
    orb, Mansa Musa is also credited with initiating extensive building projects in Mali from palaces, Mosques and urban developments.

Sundiata Keita Founder of the Ancient Mali Empire (The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal)1210 – 1255. The Mali Empire
 took control after the Almorvarids Berber Kings of Morocco destroyed the Ghana Empire.

Sundiata Kieta is the renowned hero Prince of the Mandinka people. This prince’s rise to fame is chronicled in the poem The Epic of Sundiata traditionally told by
 “Griots.” The poem tells of Sundiata’s fabled origins and details his pre-ordained rise to kingship, the formation of the Malian Empire and his imperial conquests 
 starting out with a victorious battle at Kirina on the Niger River
Afterward, he marched on, conquering all territories in modern day Senegal, the Gambia and Guinea Bissau. The dynastic line he originated became one
 of the wealthiest and most powerful ancient West African empires.


Amenhotep III (Egypt) 18th Dynasty 1388-1351 BC. Father of the famed “heretic Pharaoh,” Akhenaten, and grandfather to the famous King Tut, Amenhotep 
III was one Egypt’s greatest pharaohs and the most successful of the 18th Dynasty. During his reign, Egypt enjoyed wealth, peace and stability. There were several
 exquisite building projects and monuments he commissioned as well as the first man-made lake outside his palace in Malkata for his wife, the Great Queen Tiye. During
  his reign, Egypt had exceptional influence in foreign policy and diplomacy, which he handled along with his wife, Queen Tiye. Proof of this lies in the renowned Amarna
   letters coming from Assyria, Babylon, Mittani and Hatti. When Amenhotep III died, he left behind a country that was at the very height of its power and influence, commanding
    immense respect in the international world.

