The climate of Africa is a range of climates such as the equatorial climate, the tropical wet and dry climate, the tropical monsoon climate, the semi-arid
 climate (semi-desert and steppe), the desert climate (hyper-arid and arid), and the subtropical highland climate. Temperate climates are rare across the 
 continent except at very high elevations and along the fringes.
 
  In fact, the climate of Africa is more variable by rainfall amount than by temperatures, 
 which are consistently high. African deserts are the sunniest and the driest parts of the continent, owing to the prevailing presence of the subtropical 
 ridge with subsiding, hot, dry air masses. Africa holds many heat-related records: the continent has the hottest extended region year-round, the areas with
  the hottest summer climate, the highest sunshine duration, and more.

Owing to Africa's position across equatorial and subtropical latitudes in both the northern and southern hemisphere, several different climate types
 can be found within it. The continent mainly lies within the intertropical zone between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, hence its 
 interesting density of humidity.
 
 
  Precipitation intensity is always high, and it is a hot continent. Warm and hot climates prevail all over Africa, but
  mostly the northern part is marked by aridity and high temperatures. Only the northernmost and the southernmost fringes of the continent have a Mediterranean
   climate. The equator runs through the middle of Africa, as do the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, making Africa the most tropical continent.
The already hot and dry climate that straddles the equator, makes it the most vulnerable continent to climate change.




The low-level easterly African jet stream is considered to play a crucial role in the southwest monsoon of Africa, and helps form the tropical waves which
 march across the tropical Atlantic and the eastern part of the Pacific during the warm season.The jet exhibits both barotropic and baroclinic instability
 , which produces synoptic-scale, westward-propagating disturbances in the jet known as African easterly waves, or tropical waves. A small number of mesoscale storm 
 systems embedded in these waves develop into tropical cyclones after they move from west Africa into the tropical Atlantic, mainly during August and September. When
  the jet lies south of normal during the peak months of the Atlantic hurricane season, tropical cyclone formation is suppressed.